Which of these statements is true?
A) p value gives the probability of the alternative hypothesis
B) Significance level alpha gives the probability of the alternative hypothesis
C) Significance level alpha gives the probability of the null hypothesis
D) None of them
ANSWER: D

Power of a test comparing two means depends on:
A) population variance
B) sample size
C) size of the effect (i.e., difference between the means in the population)
D) All of them
ANSWER: D

Two means were compared using t test and p value of .04 was obtained. It means that:
A) it is impossible to tell the probability of the alternative hypothesis
B) probability of obtaining a significant result is 96% (assuming that we can repeat the experiment infinite number of times)
C) probability of obtaining the difference we observe given the nullhypothesis is 4%
D) probability of the null hypothesis (no difference between the means on the population level) is 4%
ANSWER: A

Bonferroni correction may be used when multiple statistical tests are conducted simultaneously. It consists in dividing alpha by a certain value of k, where k is:
A) the number of statistical tests conducted
B) the number of experimental conditions
C) the sample size minus 1
D) None of them.
ANSWER: A

Which of these statements about different approaches to statistical inference is true?
A) In the Neyman-Pearson approach the exact p value obtained matters, not just whether it is below the alpha level or not.
C) The Fisherian approach is based on the subjective interpretation of probability.
D) In the Fisherian approach the exact p value does not matter, only whether it is below the alpha level or not.
D) None of them.
ANSWER: D

Which of these statements is true?
A) If a given scientific journal accepts for publication papers with results significant at the alpha level .05 only, then around 5% of the papers published in the journal present false results.
B) The probability that the 95% confidence interval calculated around a particular sample mean includes the true population mean is 95%.
C) A relatively wide confidence interval, when the result is non-significant, suggests that the test was not sensitive enough.
D) Six studies comparing mean intelligence in two different populations were conducted. Each time the same direction of the difference was observed. However, none of the observed differences were significant. Therefore there is no reason to reject the null hypothesis (about lack of the difference)
ANSWER: C
